ROX-18668: Network graph changes for 4.2 (#63998)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/generate-network-policies-ng20.adoc

[role="_abstract"]
{product-title-short} lets you automatically generate network policies based on the actual observed network communication flows in your environment.

You can generate policies based on the cluster, namespaces, and deployments that you have selected in the network graph. Policies are generated for any deployments that are included in the current Network Graph scope. For example, the current scope could include the entire cluster, a cluster and namespaces, or individually selected deployments in the selected namespaces. You can also further reduce the scope by applying one of the filters from the *Filter deployments* field with any combination of the cluster, namespace, and deployment selections. For example, you could narrow the scope to deployments in a specific cluster and namespace that are affected by a specific CVE. Policies are generated from the traffic observed during the baseline discovery period.

.Procedure
. In the {product-title-short} portal, navigate to *Network Graph*.
. Select a cluster, and then select one or more namespaces.

> . Optional: Select individual deployments to restrict the policy generated to just those deployments. You can also use the *Filter deployments* feature to further narrow the scope.

Reviewer: W/C nit based on the ISG's entry for the word "just": "Omit just if the omission does not change the sentence meaning. Do not use just to mean only; use only instead."

```suggestion
. Optional: Select individual deployments to restrict the policy generated to only those deployments. You can also use the *Filter deployments* feature to further narrow the scope.
```

. In the network graph header, select *Network policy generator*.

> . Optional: In the information panel that opens, select *Exclude ports & protocols* to remove the port/protocol restrictions when generating network policies from a baseline. For example, the `nginx3` deployment makes a port 80 connection to `nginx4`, and this is included as part of the baseline for nginx4. If policies are generated and this checkbox is not selected (the default behavior), the generated policy will restrict the allowed connections from `nginx3` to `nginx4` to only port 80. If policies are generated with this option selected, the generated policy will allow any port in the connection from `nginx3` to `nginx4`.

Reviewer: Should this instance of nginx4 also be in backticks?

```suggestion
. Optional: In the information panel that opens, select *Exclude ports & protocols* to remove the port/protocol restrictions when generating network policies from a baseline. For example, the `nginx3` deployment makes a port 80 connection to `nginx4`, and this is included as part of the baseline for `nginx4`. If policies are generated and this checkbox is not selected (the default behavior), the generated policy will restrict the allowed connections from `nginx3` to `nginx4` to only port 80. If policies are generated with this option selected, the generated policy will allow any port in the connection from `nginx3` to `nginx4`.
```

> . Optional: In the information panel that opens, select *Exclude ports & protocols* to remove the port/protocol restrictions when generating network policies from a baseline. For example, the `nginx3` deployment makes a port 80 connection to `nginx4`, and this is included as part of the baseline for nginx4. If policies are generated and this checkbox is not selected (the default behavior), the generated policy will restrict the allowed connections from `nginx3` to `nginx4` to only port 80. If policies are generated with this option selected, the generated policy will allow any port in the connection from `nginx3` to `nginx4`.

Reviewer: Also, this feels like a lot of additional context to add after an instruction. Is it worth taking everything starting from "For example.." and making it a separate paragraph that's still a part of this step? I feel like it would make the instruction more scannable and allow users to skip the example if they don't need one.

> . Click *Generate and simulate network policies*. {product-title-short} generates policies for the scope that you have chosen. This scope is displayed at the top of the *Generate network policies* panel. Clicking on the deployment information in the scope displays a list of the deployments that are included.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I feel like the last sentence (or perhaps all but the first sentence, but I don't know the context here) might belong in a NOTE. Up to you.

> . The generated network policy configuration YAML file opens in the same panel. You can copy the displayed YAML file to the clipboard or download it by clicking the download icon in the panel.

Reviewer: I think there should be some sort of imperative here if this is going to be a step. I'd suggest choosing one of two options to modify this step:

1. Making this step a NOTE if this is just something that might be useful to know
2. Rewording it to something like this if it's an optional thing:
```suggestion
. Optional: Copy the generated network policy configuration YAML file to the clipboard or download it by clicking the download icon in the panel.
```

. Optional: To compare the generated network policies to the existing network policies, click *Compare*. The YAML files for existing and generated network policies are shown in a side-by-side view.
+
[NOTE]
====
Some items do not have generated policies, such as namespaces with existing ingress policies or deployments in certain protected namespaces such as as `stackrox` or `acs`.
====
. Optional: Click the *Actions* menu to perform the following activities:

> * Share the YAML file with notifiers: Sends the YAML file to one of the system notifiers you have configured (for example, Slack, ServiceNow, or an application that uses generic webhooks). These notifiers are configured by navigating to *Platform Configuration* -> *Integrations*. See the documentation in the "Additional resources" section for more information.

Reviewer: Suggestion: slight rewording to avoid the use of parentheses for general text

```suggestion
* Share the YAML file with notifiers: Sends the YAML file to one of the system notifiers you have configured, for example Slack, ServiceNow, or an application that uses generic webhooks. These notifiers are configured by navigating to *Platform Configuration* -> *Integrations*. See the documentation in the "Additional resources" section for more information.
```

. Optional: Select individual deployments to restrict the policy generated to just those deployments. You can also use the *Filter deployments* feature to further narrow the scope.
. In the network graph header, select *Network policy generator*.
. Optional: In the information panel that opens, select *Exclude ports & protocols* if you do not want ports and protocols to be scoped in {product-title-short} generated policies.
. Click *Generate and simulate network policies*. {product-title-short} generates policies for the scope that you have chosen. This scope is displayed at the top of the *Generate network policies* panel. Clicking on the deployment information in the scope displays a list of the deployments that are included.
. The generated network policy configuration YAML file opens in the same panel, and the network graph shows the effects of the policies. You can copy the displayed YAML file to the clipboard or download it by clicking the appropriate icon in the panel.
. Optional: To compare the generated network policies to the existing network policies, click *Compare*. The YAML files for existing and generated network policies are shown in a side-by-side view.
+

> [NOTE]

Author: It is in Step 5. Would the user normally do this before clicking "Generate and simulate network policies?" I will add the info you've shared above to that step, but wondering if you wanted it moved further down.

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 2: Ah, sorry I missed it I was focusing more on the changed lines and didn't realize this was already there. No I think the location you currently have it is good. 👍

====
Some items do not have generated policies, such as namespaces with existing ingress policies or deployments in certain protected namespaces such as as `stackrox` or `acs`.
====
. Optional: Click the *Actions* menu to perform the following activities:
* Share the YAML file with notifiers: Sends the YAML file to one of the system notifiers you have configured (for example, Slack, ServiceNow, or an application that uses generic webhooks). These notifiers are configured by navigating to *Platform Configuration* -> *Integrations*. See the documentation in the "Additional resources" section for more information.

> * Rebuild rules from active traffic: Gathers a new baseline for the network policy and rebuilds the network policy from the baseline. ##Is this correct?##

Reviewer 3: I believe you're right @dvail from what I remember

> * Rebuild rules from active traffic: Gathers a new baseline for the network policy and rebuilds the network policy from the baseline. ##Is this correct?##

Reviewer 4: tbh i'm not sure... is this something that is new for the feature? maybe someone on the BE team has more context on what exactly is happening once the call is sent

> * Rebuild rules from active traffic: Gathers a new baseline for the network policy and rebuilds the network policy from the baseline. ##Is this correct?##

Author: I checked and we listed this option as available in the last version, but did not explain it. Since we aren't sure of what it does, and this is an optional action, I am just going to remove the description.

> * Revert rules to previously applied YAML: Removes the simulated policy and reverts to the last network policy.

Reviewer 3: @dvail are you referring to the reverting? This behavior should be exactly the same as what we had before. It's basically the undo functionality from the old network graph. If we had applied a new network policy A->B. Then it reverts back to A

> * Revert rules to previously applied YAML: Removes the simulated policy and reverts to the last network policy.

Reviewer 2: @sachaudh How do you apply a policy to the current network graph? I thought the ability to apply automatically generated policies was removed - or are you talking about different functionality? In the flows I am testing the "Revert rules" button always results in an error in the UI, since there is no action applied to the current cluster to undo.

> * Revert rules to previously applied YAML: Removes the simulated policy and reverts to the last network policy.

Reviewer 4: it should be the same as before like saif was mentioning afaik. i think you might be seeing errors @dvail since there is no policy to revert to. idt the way the policy was generated or added matters for this functionality (can be uploaded or generated) but i think it can only be reverted if there was a policy previously applied.
